# Momentum Strategy Research

This project was part of Udacity's AI for Trading course. The code used in this project was built by me after being given video lectures of the concepts and a prompt to write the code. I wanted to work on this project to dive deeper into financial trading using algorithms and code to handle the research, backtesting, and buy/sell signals used in typical financial firms.

To combat the 2020 novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak within the United States, many city and state officials issued 4-6 week stay-at-home orders that started in March and ended between the end of April to the beginning of May. These stay-at-home orders caused an abrupt fall in demand for oil and an increase in the use of online platforms to conduct work remotely. The drop in demand for oil created a rise in the supply, which quickly lead to a shortage of space to store the excess oil causing prices to decrease into negative territory. This was preceded by lock-downs around the world where the virus was present and rapidly spreading. China's lockdown and subsequent drop in demand in particular triggered a price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia in early March due to both countries' refusal to cut crude oil production. On the other hand, large tech stocks continued to rise to historic all time highs as people shifted to remote work, utilizing web-conferencing and cloud computing technologies. For example, Apple's valuation was around $1 Trillion before the stay-at-home orders were put in place in March. After a sharp and rapid decline with the rest of the market, Apple's stock price quickly bounced back and increased to a new all-time-high and continued into new price discovery territory for months. Apple eventually stabilized around a $2 Trillion valuation, doubling its value in less than a year. Many of the other large technology companies saw similar patterns during this time period. The novel coronavirus has been a true "black swan" event with its abrupt effects causing major shifts in the demand and supply curves for many industries in 2020.

I was curious about whether these extreme shifts and following trends in demand and supply between the technology stocks and the oil and gas stocks would provide a statistically significant alpha signal. I used this project to test this curiosity using a cross-sectional momentum strategy.
